# Resumos T2

## Good Design

**Schneiderman's 8 Golden Rules:**

- Consistency
- Universal Usability
- Informative Feedback
- Design Dialogues
- Prevent Errors
- Permit Easy Reversal of Actions
- Keep Users in Control
- Reduce Short-Term Memory Load

**Norman's 7 Principles:**

- Use both knowledge in the world and knowledge in the head.
- Simplify the structure of tasks.
- Make things visible: bridge the gulfs of Execution and Evaluation.
- Get the mappings right.
- Exploit the power of constraints, both natural and artificial.
- Design for error.
- When all else fails, standardize.

## Colours

Colors can be used for **labelling**, **grouping**, **hightlight**, etc.
= colors = meaning
!= colors != meaning

A few Guidelines for using colors:

- Avoid overuse of saturated colours.
- If the background is darker use lighter text, and vice-versa.
- For better contrast, use complementary colors.
- Pure blue should not be used for fine detail of background.
- Use no more than six colours to label graphic elements.
- Use colours in conformity with cultural conventions.
- Use colour coding consistently across displays.
- Use colour coding redundantly with other graphic dimensions.
- Don't use colour coding on small graphic elements.
- Use neutral grey surrounds where colour judgement is critical.
- Colour blindness affects a significant fraction of human beings.

## Graphic Design

Guidelines:

- Simplicity
- Constrast
- White space
- Balance
- Align

Techniques for simplicity:

- Reduction
- Regularity
- Combining elements for maximum leverage

Characteristics of visual variables:
- Scale - possible kinds of comparisons
  - Nominal - equality
  - Odered - < > comparisons
  - Quantitative - compare amount of difference
- Length - number of possible values on each dimension
  - Shape - long
  - Position - long
  - Orientation - very short ( 4 levels)

## Evaluation

**3 Main goals:**

- System's functionalities
- Interface impact on the user
- Identification of system's specific problems

### Predictive Models

- Evaluates how people will interact with interfaces. 
- Measures the user performance without real testing. 
- Useful when it's not possible to execute user tests.

### GOMS (Goals, Operators, Methods, Selection rules)

- Goals - State what the user wants to achieve. (e.g. "Open a file")
- Operators - elementary perceptual, motor or cognitive actions that must be executed to achieve the goal (e.g. "Move mouse to file menu")
- Methods - procedures that describe how to accomplish goals. Consist in the exact sequence of steps required to achieve the goal. (e.g. "Click on file menu")
- Selection rules - used to determine which method should be used when there are several possible methods.

These can help:

- Verifying functionalities
- Previewing execution times
- Help systems

There are four different types of GOMS models:

- KLM (Keystroke Level Model)
- CMN-GOMS (Card, Moran, Newell GOMS)
- NGOMSL (New Generation of GOMS Language)
- CPM-GOMS (Cognitive Perceptual Motor GOMS)

## KLM

- Provides numeric predictions of the time required to execute a task.
- Compares the time required to complete a task using the different methods.
- Good preview - 20% error.
- Used for **micro-interactions.** (e.g. substitute a wrong character)

### GOMS - Limitations

- Previews are only valid for experienced users, who do not make errors.
- Do not consider different times for different users.
- Do not consider user satisfaction

## Heuristic evaluation

- Executed by an expert
- Based on analysis and judgement
- Process:
  - Evaluator exhaustively inspects the interface
  - Compare the intereface with a set of heuristics
  - Elaborate a list of usability problems

### Heuristics

**1. Visibility of system status** - Feedback
**2. Match the real world** - Speak the user's language
**3. User control and freedom** 
**4. Consistency and standards** - Follow conventions
**5. Error prevention**
**6. Recognition not Recall**
**7. Flexibility & efficiency of use** - Accelerators
**8. Aesthetic and minimalist design**
**9. Error reporting, diagnosis and Recovery**
**10. Help and documentation**

Nielsen recommends 3-5 evaluators, because different evaluators can find different problems.
Not more because it's expensive and not so many new problems are found.

- Formal process:
  - Training - Meeting the team and evaluators and explaining target users, the application, scenarions,...
  - Evaluation - Each evaluator works independently, then they meet to discuss the problems found.
  - Severity classification - Compile the problems in a list, each classifies each one and calculate the average ratings.
  - Discussing of results - with both teams brainstorm to find solutions.

- Factors that impact Severity:
  - Frequency
  - Impact
  - Persistence

Tog's Principles:
- Aesthetics
- Anticipation
- Autonomy
- Colour
- Consistency
- Defaults
- Discoverability
- Efficiency of the User
- Explorable Interfaces
- Fitt's Law - Big buttons are faster
- Human Interface Objects
- Latency Reduction
- Learnability
- Metaphors
- Protect the User's Work
- Readability
- Simplicity
- Track State
- Visible Navigation

## Cognitive Walkthrough

Focus on learnability: users prefer to learn by exploring.
Evaluators execute a sequence of actions to achieve a goal, searching potential problems.

1. Prototype description
2. Task description
3. Complete list of the actions needed to complete the task
4. Indications about the users and their experience

## User tests

- Select users that match the target audience
- Select a realistic not fragmented and not too long task


## Controlled experiments

- Methods:
  - Between subjects - Each group of users only tests one interface
  - Within subjects - Each user tests all interfaces

